# CorridorDesigner
CorridorDesigner was an ArcToolbox toolbox for creating habitat and corridor models with ArcGIS and an ArcMap extension for evaluating corridors. 

The CorridorDesigner toolbox aided the user in 1) creating habitat suitability models & identifying potential habitat patches, 2) creating corridor models, and 3) transforming a DEM into a topographic slope position raster. The ArcMap extension allowed the user to evaluate and compare alternative corridor designs by calculating metrics such as: 1) Width and bottlenecks throughout a corridor, 2) Distances between habitat patches within a corridor, and 3) General statistics such as histograms of habitat suitability within a corridor. The CorridorDesigner evaluation extension is designed to work with the output from the ArcGIS extension to evaluate potential wildlife corridors.

CorridorDesigner was initially developed to automate analyses for designing wildlife linkages in Arizona, and then developed into a tool for the public in 2007. Because it was developed so long ago, it only works in old versions of ArcGIS (9.x and possibly through 10.1) using 2.x versions of Python. The tools probably won't work for you, and we're no longer in a position to support old tools, but we provide the code in case it's helpful to see how we performed certain procedures, like habitat patch mapping. We outlined the conceptual steps in a paper in Conservation Biology entitled [Forks in the Road: Choices in Procedures for Designing Wildland Linkages](https://conbio.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/epdf/10.1111/j.1523-1739.2008.00942.x).

We also developed a Toolbox to be used within Arizona which contained pre-parameterized habitat models, which is also included here. Like the CorridorDesigner toolbox, the code and data are woefully out-of-date and unusable in modern versions of ArcGIS. 
